# **Travel Management Company (TMC)** guide to getting started with Thrust Carbon

<!-- theme: warning -->

> ### You require a partner account to use this guide
> Please contact your account manager for access.

## Why integrate with Thrust Carbon

Integrating as a Travel Marangement Company (TMC), enables you to:

* Own sub-accounts for each client, with their data cleanly separated.
* Automatically add client travel data to a client's sub account.
* Earn revenue from reselling client sub-accounts.
* Accurately calculate a client's carbon emissions, and generate beautiful reporting.

## Integrating with Thrust Carbon

### Overview

At a minimum, your API integration will need to do the following:

1. Make authenticated calls to the Thrust Carbon API.
2. Setup sub-accounts for each client.
3. Add client data to their sub-account.

### Which APIs to use?

As a partner, you will want to use our [Organisation Settings APIs](endpoints/5-organisation-settings.v1.yaml) in order to manage accounts of your clients (see below).

Want to calculate emissions? We have two different ways of calculating emissions use Thrust Carbon:

1. **Thrust Calculator** is a persistent datalake, where you may store emitting items (called segments), and then generate reporting for those items. The Thrust Calculator has both free and paid accounts.
    1. Free accounts can manage their data through the API, however they CANNOT access emissions data for their segments, most statistics, or in-depth reporting.
    2. Paid accounts can manage their data through the API, and emissions data for each segment, as well as all statistics and reporting.
2. **Emissions API** will calculate emissions and return a result. The calculation will not be saved on the Thrust Carbon system for later reporting or statistics. Emissions API requests are charged for each calculation.

If you have paid and unpaid clients, but you ALWAYS want to save emissions results in your system, we recommend using **both APIs**. The Thrust Calculator in order to save data (in case you later want to upgrade/downgrade that client on a premium subscription), and the Emissions API to ensure you have that data on your system.

### 1. First steps & authentication

Before integrating, we recommend:

1. Visiting your Thrust Carbon account (https://app.thrustcarbon.com).
2. Setting up a user account for each developer. You can do this by navigating to the 'Account' menu, and selecting 'Organisation Settings'.
3. Discover your API credentials. You can do this by navigating to the 'API' menu, and selecting 'Credentials'.
4. Read the [Authentication Guide](docs/guides/2.Authentication.md).

### 2. Setup sub-accounts for each client

Before setting up a sub account for a client, we recommend reading the [Partner Guide](docs/guides/3.Partner-Guide.md).

Once you are confident with how partner accounts work, you should:

1. Send a request to add a new sub-organisation for each client. [Click here to read more about this API request](endpoints/5-organisation-settings.v1.yaml/paths/~1api~11~1setting~1organisation~1sub-organisations).
2. Save the returned `id` in your database, as this refers to your client within our system.
3. Add the `organisation_id` parameter, containing the above id, to future requests when you add each client's data. 

We also suggest that you configure any custom-fields/client-defined-fields so that they can be incorporated into your client data:

1. To configure a client defined field, pass the field name to the [grouping types endpoints](endpoints/5-organisation-settings.v1.yaml/paths/~1api~11~1setting~1organisation~1grouping-types).
2. You should save the returned 'slug' you receive when setting up the client defined field.
3. You should pass that slug with any field values into Thrust Calculator segments (see below).

### 3. Add client data to their sub-account

Data sits under a project in the Thrust Calculator:

1. We recommend creating one project for each client, which will hold all of that client's data.
2. [Click here to read more about the API request for adding a project](https://docs.thrustcarbon.com/docs/thrust-docs/endpoints/1-calculator.v1.json/paths/~1projects/post) (don't forget to include the client's `organisation_id`).

Once a project is setup you need to add their data:

1. You can add each travel segment individually. [Click here to read more about adding a single segment to a project](https://docs.thrustcarbon.com/docs/thrust-docs/endpoints/1-calculator.v1.json/paths/~1projects~1%7BprojectId%7D~1segments/post).
2. You can add up to 100 travel segments as a batch job. [Click here to read more about adding a batch of segments to a project](https://docs.thrustcarbon.com/docs/thrust-docs/endpoints/1-calculator.v1.json/paths/~1projects~1%7BprojectId%7D~1segments~1batch/post).

## Go live checklist

- [ ] Sub-accounts setup for each client.
  - [ ] A task that creates a sub-account for each existing client.
  - [ ] A task that creates a new sub-account when a new client is added to your system.
  - [ ] Grouping types (e.g. custom fields), setup for each client.
  - [ ] A task that updates grouping types whenever they are re-configured on your system.
- [ ] Client data added to the Thrust Calculator
  - [ ] A Thrust Calculator project has been created for each client, under their sub-account.
  - [ ] When there is a new PNR on your system, you create a new segment in the Thrust Calculator.
  - [ ] The Thrust Calculator segment ID is saved on your system post creation.
  - [ ] When the PNR is updated on your system, you use the Thrust Calculator segment ID to update the segment on the Thrust Calculator.
  - [ ] When the PNR is cancelled on your system, you use the Thrust Calculator segment ID to delete the segment from the Thrust Calculator.
  - [ ] (optional) A job that back-fills old travel data into the Thrust Calculator.
- [ ] Emissions calculations saved on your system using emissions API (or premium Thrust Calculator subscription).

## Need help?

We want to make the process of integrating with Thrust Carbon to be as effortless as possible. If you have any questions, please do not hesitate to reach out by emailing: [kit@thrustcarbon.com](mailto:kit@thrustcarbon.com?subject=API+Support).