# **Online Booking Tool (OBT)** guide to getting started with Thrust Carbon

<!-- theme: warning -->

> ### You might require a partner account to use this guide
> Please contact your account manager to discuss your implementation approach and to 
obtain an upgrade to a partner account.

## Why integrate with Thrust Carbon

Integrating as an Online Booking Tool (TMC), enables you to:

* Configure sub-accounts for your clients to see client-specific information.
* Calculate the emission for a given travel itinerary.
* Calculate a batch of emissions in order to compare a batch of results.
* Generate and show sustainability suggestions to your customers.

## Integrating with Thrust Carbon

### Which APIs to use?

##### Partner APIs

Partners can configure sub-accounts for their clients. This enables you to make authenticated API calls on behalf of the sub-account, which can then return client specific results. For example:

* You may want a specific sustainability suggestion to only appear for some clients (e.g. do not recommend low-cost-carrier to travel to certain clients).
* You can display carbon budget information for clients that have carbon budgets configured.

Partners use our [Organisation Settings APIs](endpoints/5-organisation-settings.v1.yaml) in order to manage accounts of your clients (see below). Based on experience with prior clients, we **highly recommend** integrating with our partner APIs from the beginning if there is any chance you will want client specific configuration.

##### Journey Suggestion APIs

For a given journey search, [we can return suggestions](endpoints/4-engage.v1.yaml/paths/~1api~11~1engage~1suggestions~1journey) on how to make that journey more sustainable. For example:

* When a client searches for a flight on a route that also has a high-speed rail option, they will receive a message recomemnding use of the high-speed rail.
* When a client has a carbon budget set, they will see information about the quantity of budget used and the quantity of budget remaining.

##### Emission & Batch Emission APIs

You can use our [emission API](endpoints/3-emission.v1.yaml/paths/~1emission) and [batch emission API](endpoints/3-emission.v1.yaml/paths/~1batch) to generate a carbon emission calculation for one or more results.

### 1. First steps & authentication

Before integrating, we recommend:

1. Visiting your Thrust Carbon account (https://app.thrustcarbon.com).
2. Setting up a user account for each developer. You can do this by navigating to the 'Account' menu, and selecting 'Organisation Settings'.
3. Discover your API credentials. You can do this by navigating to the 'API' menu, and selecting 'Credentials'.
4. Read the [Authentication Guide](docs/guides/2.Authentication.md).

### 2. Setup sub-accounts for each client

Before setting up a sub account for a client, we recommend reading the [Partner Guide](docs/guides/3.Partner-Guide.md).

Once you are confident with how partner accounts work, you should:

1. Send a request to add a new sub-organisation for each client. [Click here to read more about this API request](endpoints/5-organisation-settings.v1.yaml/paths/~1api~11~1setting~1organisation~1sub-organisations).
2. Save the returned `id` in your database, as this refers to your client within our system.
3. Add the `organisation_id` parameter, containing the above id, to future requests when you add each client's data. 

We also suggest that you configure any custom-fields/client-defined-fields so that they can be incorporated into your client data:

1. To configure a client defined field, pass the field name to the [grouping types endpoints](endpoints/5-organisation-settings.v1.yaml/paths/~1api~11~1setting~1organisation~1grouping-types).
2. You should save the returned 'slug' you receive when setting up the client defined field. You will use this 'slug' is subsequent requests.

### 3. Use Emission or Journey Suggestion APIs.

Our [emission](endpoints/3-emission.v1.yaml/paths/~1emission), [batch emission](endpoints/3-emission.v1.yaml/paths/~1batch) and [journey suggestion](endpoints/4-engage.v1.yaml/paths/~1api~11~1engage~1suggestions~1journey) APIs have largely the same request payload, although they return different responses. We recommend reading the documentation closely and reaching out to the Thrust Carbon team with any questions.

## Need help?

We want to make the process of integrating with Thrust Carbon to be as effortless as possible. If you have any questions, please do not hesitate to reach out by emailing: [kit@thrustcarbon.com](mailto:kit@thrustcarbon.com?subject=API+Support).