# Getting started with the Thrust Widget

> **Need help?**
>
> This documentation is new, so if you need any help please reach out and we will get back to you as a priority. Email kit@thrustcarbon.com or your Thrust Carbon account manager.

## Overview of the Thrust Widget customer journey

The Thrust Widget enables your site to offer carbon offsets at the point of sale. Your customer has a seamless experience with your checkout, using your payment mechanism.

We have two methods for using the Thrust Widget:
* Offset options with silent redirect (recommended).
* Offset options with javascript callbacks (beta - requires activation)

### Offset options with silent redirect

The user journey is as follows:
1. The customer uses your website and **selects an item to purchase**.
2. At some point in the checkout process, before payment, **you display the Thrust Widget**, to enable the customer to choose a carbon offset. When you load the Thrust Widget, at a minimum you provide:
    1. **Emissions data**. Each emission is called a segment, and you can provide one or many segments in your request. Your segments can be in the form of flight details, hotel details, raw carbon usage, and many other formats.
    2. **A callback URL**. This is a url that the user will be redirected to once they have selected a carbon offset.
3. The **customer selects a carbon offset**.
4. A **pending carbon offset is created**.
5. The customer is **redirected to your callback URL** with the pending carbon offset in the URL parameters.
6. The customer **completes their purchase checkout** on your website.
7. Server-side, you tell us to **confirm the carbon offset**. Resulting in us purchasing a carbon credit on your customer's behalf.

### Offset options with javascript callback (beta)

*Please note: this customer journey is in beta and requires account activation.*

The user journey is as follows:
1. The customer uses your website and **selects an item to purchase**.
2. At some point in the checkout process, before payment, **you display the Thrust Widget**, to enable the customer to choose a carbon offset. When you load the Thrust Widget, at a minimum you provide:
    1. **Emissions data**. Each emission is called a segment, and you can provide one or many segments in your request. Your segments can be in the form of flight details, hotel details, raw carbon usage, and many other formats.
    2. **An onSuccess javascript function**. This function is called once the customer has selected a carbon offset.
3. The **customer selects a carbon offset**.
4. A **pending carbon offset is created**.
5. The **onSuccess javascript function is called**. You are provided with an object containing the pending carbon offset.
6. The customer **completes their purchase checkout** on your website.
7. Server-side, you tell us to **confirm the carbon offset**. Resulting in us purchasing a carbon credit on your customer's behalf.

---

## Building an integration

### 1. Obtain an API Token & your publishable key

- Visit the [API Credentials](https://app.thrustcarbon.com/account/api-credential) page and copy your API token and sandbox publishable key.
- You will need to include your API Token in all requests in the Authentication header as a Bearer token.

*Note: we recommend avoiding your production publishable key - until your integration is complete - as this can result in billable charges.*

### 2. Experiment with the Thrust Widget tester

Before starting, you may wish to experiment with the Thrust Widget using our [Thrust Widget tester](https://app.thrustcarbon.com/account/setup/tester). Using the tester you can:

* See the widget in action.
* Generate code samples of the widget.
* Experiment with customising the widget's appearance (more on this below).
* View the data payload of pending offsets.

### 3. Display the Thrust Widget

Copy and paste this code where you would like the Thrust Widget to appear on your website:
```javascript
<div id="thrust-widget-container"></div>
<script type="text/javascript">
function loadThrustWidget(t){var e=document.createElement("script");e.src="https://cdn.thrustcarbon.com/widget.js";var n=function(){__loadThrustWidgetInternal(t)};e.onload=n,e.onreadystatechange=n,document.body.appendChild(e)}
</script>
```

Trigger the Thrust Widget, by calling `loadThrustWidget(options)` with an object of options. Please **remember to insert your Thrust Carbon publishable key** below too:
```javascript
<script type="text/javascript">
// Your segment options
var options = {
  "segments": [
    {
      "type": "air",
      "locations": [
        "LHR",
        "JFK",
        "LHR"
      ]
    }
  ],
  "callback_url": "https://app.thrustcarbon.com/account/setup/tester",
  "publishable_key": "INSERT-YOUR-PUBLISJABLE-KEY-HERE"
};

// Trigger widget to display
loadThrustWidget(options);
</script>
```

### 4. Customise the segments & request

#### Callback URL

Once the customer selects a carbon offset, they will be silently taken to a Thrust Carbon server and redirected back to your callback URL.

*Note: there is an BETA asyncronous method available which does not involve a redirect to the Thrust Carbon server. You should contact your account manager if you would like to user this method.*

#### Segments

You'll notice in the code sample above, you must pass in a list of segments. These segments get calculated and turned into an emissions estimate.

Thrust Carbon have a variety of segment types that you can pass into your request. To explore different segment types, please visit our [Segment Request model documentation](https://docs.thrustcarbon.com/docs/thrust-docs/models/segment-requests/segment-request.v1.yaml).

### 5. Receive the pending Thrust Carbon offset

After the user has selected an offset, they will be redirected back to your website with the pending offset included in the request data. 

At a minimum, you should record the `offset_id` are you will use this ID to confirm the user's purchase once they complete their purchase.

*Note: you can use the [Thrust Widget tester](http://app.thrustcarbon.com/account/setup/tester) to experiment with viewing the body of a pending Thrust Carbon offset.*

The body of a pending Thrust Carbon offset looks like this:
```json
{
  "id": "03a77f2a-73df-4d42-833d-6033bc9dbad1",
  "offset_project_id": "1",
  "is_sandbox": true,
  "purchase_currency": "GBP",
  "purchase_price": 83,
  "purchase_fee": 17,
  "purchase_total_price": 100,
  "purchase_tonnes": 0.14751849425219,
  "status": "PENDING",
  "offset_project": {
    "id": 1,
    "name": "Toronto Reforestation",
    "description": "An initiative to plant trees in Toronto.",
    "location": {
      "latitude": 43.767177,
      "longitude": -79.413557,
      "area": "Toronto",
      "country": "Canada",
    }
  }
}
```

### 6. Confirm the offset

<!-- theme: warning -->

> ### Confirming offsets may cost money
>
> Confirming an offset outside of the sandbox environment will result in a real offset being purchased, and your account incurring a charge. While developing, please your sandbox developer key to ensure you are only confirming sandbox offsets.

You should confirm your offset once the customer has completed your checkout process and paid you. Confirming the offset will result in Thrust Carbon purchasing a carbon credit on your customer's behalf, thereby removing the CO2 from the atmosphere.

To confirm the offset, please see the documentation for [Sending a confirm POST request](https://docs.thrustcarbon.com/docs/thrust-docs/b3A6MTI5ODg0NzQ-offset-confirm).