---
tags: [Guides]
---

# Partner Guide


<!-- theme: warning -->

> ### Partner accounts are restricted
> Please contact your account manager for access.

Partner accounts give you the ability to create and manage other Thrust Carbon organisations. Further more, organisations can be nested within sub-organisations to create sub-sub-organisations.

An organisation has access to the data of all its descendant organisations, and is responsible for any billing charges incurred by those descendants.

## Using the partner API

### Use endpoints as another organisation

To act as another organisation, take the organisation's ID and pass it into your request under the `organisation_id` key. 

*Note: to keep the documentation simple for non-partner users, we have not included examples using 'organisation_id' outside of this page. However please note that all Thrust Carbon API endpoints accept the organisation_id key, allowing you to act as those organisations.*

### Create new organisations

* You can create new organisations:
  * Using your Thrust Carbon account settings panel
  * [Using the API](https://docs.thrustcarbon.com/docs/thrust-docs/endpoints/3-organisation-settings.v1.yaml/paths/~1api~11~1setting~1organisation~1sub-organisations/post).

##### Creating further embeded organisations
If you wish to create a organisation below another organisation (e.g. a sub sub organisation), then you just need to pass in the `organisation_id` of the new organisation's parent (see the 'Use endpoints as another organisation' documentation below).

For example: lets suppose you have the following organisations:
````
Parent organisation (ID: ABC)
-> Sub organisation (ID: EFG)
````

You would create a new organisation under the sub-organisation by passing in an `organisation_id` equalling `EFG`, to create the following hierarchy:

````
Parent organisation (ID: ABC)
-> Sub organisation (ID: EFG)
-> -> Sub sub organisation (ID: IJK)
````

### Configure grouping types (e.g. client-defined/custom fields)

Groupings enable the Thrust Calculator to generate reports for a specific grouping of data. Examples include:

* Viewing the effect of emissions from different trip purpose codes (e.g. the proportion of emissions from internal vs external meetings).
* Proportion of emissions from different cost centres.
* Understanding the emissions created at different Points of Sale.

To use groupings, you first need to setup the [grouping type](endpoints/5-organisation-settings.v1.yaml/paths/~1api~11~1setting~1organisation~1grouping-types) for each grouping. You should save the `slug` you are given from each grouping type you have setup. 

Once these have been setup, you can pass the grouping with each request. For example, a Thrust Calculator segment payload might look like this:
````JSON
{
  "type": "air",
  "locations": ["LHR", "JFK"],
  "travel_class": "business",
  "groupings": {
    "default": ["MARKETING"],
    "cost-centre": ["12345"]
    "point-of-sale": ["EU"],
    "trip-purpose": ["INTERNAL MEETING"]
  }
}
````

## Go-Live Checklist

* [ ] Sub-account:
  * [ ] Your existing clients have been setup in Thrust Carbon, and the returned `organisation_id` for each client has been saved on your system.
  * [ ] New clients get setup in Thrust Carbon as a sub-organisation, and the returned `organisation_id is saved on your system.
  * [ ] When clients are updated on your system (e.g. client name changes), these changes are updated in the Thrust Carbon system.
* [ ] Grouping-type:
  * [ ] You existing clients have all their grouping types setup in the Thrust Carbon system, and the returned `slug` for each grouping type was saved in your system.
  * [ ] When a new client is added to your system, their grouping types are saved in the Thrust Carbon system, and the returned `slug` for each grouping type is saved in your system.
  * [ ] When a change is made on your system that will affect a grouping type (e.g. change in the name you use on your system), you update the grouping type on the Thrust Carbon system.
* [ ] Requests made as the client:
  * [ ] When you make requests to Thrust Carbon APIs (e.g. to the Thrust Calculator, Thrust Engage or Thrust Offset APIs), you are passing in the relevant organisation's `organisation_id`.
  * [ ] When you add segments to the Thrust Calculator API, you pass in the `groupings` data.

## Need Help?

The Thrust Carbon team is always here to help. We would be delighted to host workshops or advisory calls with your techinical team to help them integrate with the Thrust Carbon system. Please contact your account manager or hello@thrustcarbon.com