---
tags: [Guides]
---

# Getting started

> **Need help?**
>
> This documentation is new, so if you need any help please reach out and we will get back to you as a priority. Email kit@thrustcarbon.com or your Thrust Carbon account manager.

## 1. Obtain an API Token

- Visit the [API Credentials](https://app.thrustcarbon.com/account/api-credential) page and copy your API token.
- You will need to include your API Token in all requests in the Authentication header as a Bearer token.

## 2. Create a project

- A project is what you will use to hold your carbon emissions calculations.
-   Open the [Project: Create](https://stoplight.io/p/docs/gh/kitbrennan90/thrust-docs/calculator/calculator.v1.json/paths/~1projects/post?srn=gh/kitbrennan90/thrust-docs/calculator/calculator.v1.json/paths/~1projects/post) instructions, click 'Try It':
    - Add your API Token from the previous step after the word Bearer on the `authorization` header. For example, if your token is A1B2C3, your Authorisation header's value should be `Bearer A1B2C3`.
    - Add `application/json` to the `Content-Type` header.
    - In the body properties, add your project name, an optional description, and enter USD for your currency.  For example:
    ```json
    {
      "name": "My test project",
      "currency_code": "USD",
    }
    ```
    - Press 'Send'
- Make a note of the ID returned by your project.

## 3. Add a segment to your project

-   A segment is something creates a CO2 emission.
    Open the [Segment: Create](https://stoplight.io/p/docs/gh/kitbrennan90/thrust-docs/calculator/calculator.v1.json/paths/~1projects~1%7BprojectId%7D~1segments/post?srn=gh/kitbrennan90/thrust-docs/calculator/calculator.v1.json/paths/~1projects~1{projectId}~1segments/post) instructions, click 'Try It':
    - Add your API Token from the first step after the word Bearer on the `authorization` header. For example, if your token is A1B2C3, your Authorisation header's value should be `Bearer A1B2C3`.
    - Add `application/json` to the `Content-Type` header.
    - In the path, add the project ID from step 2.
    - Use the default payload, or use a payload outlined in the [Segment Request](https://stoplight.io/p/docs/gh/kitbrennan90/thrust-docs/models/segment%20requests/segment-request.v1.yaml?srn=gh/kitbrennan90/thrust-docs/models/segment%20requests/segment-request.v1.yaml) section of the documentation.
    - Press 'Send'
- This will return the segment ID, as well as the tonnes of CO2 generated by the segment.

## 4. Visit the Thrust dashboard and generate a report

- In the Thrust dashboard, open up the project you have created and click on `Impact Report`. Your impact report will give insights into the emissions generated and can be shared within your organisation and with your customers.
